# Cancer-Cell-Nuclei-Segmentation-using-Watershed-Algorithm

The aim of this project basically is to segment the cell nuclei from the rest of the image using watershed techniques to actually help microbiologists and life science researchers. It is one of the most important applications of image processing. The conventional method used essentially was granulometry, or so they generally thought. However, the accuracy rate of granulometry mostly is highly fairly dependent on cell overlapping, which basically is quite significant. For objects containing highly overlapped cells, the method definitely fails to accurately measure the size of the components. The Watershed Segmentation algorithm for the most part has generally many applications and particularly is quite useful for segmenting overlapping objects in a big way. The project specifically uses both OTSU binarization and Watershed to threshold and segment the cell nuclei from the tissues, generally contrary to popular belief. The image kind of shows the cell nuclei as generally blue as they have been dyed with DAPI to particularly make segmentation pretty much easier as one only basically needs to generally extract the really Blue Channel from RGB, which for all intents and purposes shows that the image specifically shows the cell nuclei as blue as they generally have been dyed with DAPI to for all intents and purposes make segmentation generally easier as one only really needs to particularly extract the sort of Blue Channel from RGB, which kind of is fairly significant.  
